Good afternoon.
I'm Eric Krugler.
Oh, thank you.
Please, please.
I'm Eric Krugler with iCloud Engineering,
and we're going to be talking
about the iCloud Storage Overview
with you for the next hour,
hopefully a little less.
And I'm going to give
you an update on iCloud.
So a year ago at WWDC,
we announced iCloud,
a way to get all of your
content on all of your devices.
And a lot has happened in the past year.
We released a beta.
We got great feedback from developers.
We incorporated that feedback
back into the product.
And in October of last year,
we launched iCloud along with iOS 5.
And the adoption has been phenomenal.
Over 125 million accounts
have been created for iCloud.
And the reason for this is because iCloud
is deeply integrated into iOS and OS X.
And it starts with the setup experience.
Any new user of an iOS device,
an iPhone or an iPad,
the very first thing they're going to
see is setting up their iCloud account.
And they can either use
an existing Apple ID,
or they can create one right in the flow.
And with OS X Mountain Lion,
it gets even better, as that same setup
experience comes to the Mac.
So what this means for you
developers is that there's over
125 million accounts ready to use
your iCloud-enabled application.
So how do you use iCloud?
Well, you use the iCloud Storage API.
And this API is deeply
integrated into iOS and OS X.
It runs alongside your application so
that updates can happen automatically,
even when your application isn't running.
And iCloud Storage really
has three different types.
The first is the Key-Value Storage.
This is a brain-dead simple API that
lets you store things like preferences,
configuration, game state.
It is so simple,
we actually don't have another
session talking about it because
you can just go and do it.
So this is an API you really
should seriously consider using
in all of your applications.
The second is the Document Storage.
This provides a file system in the
cloud scoped to your application
that allows you to store files
and packages and folders just like
you would on a local file system,
but it goes to the cloud and
it goes to all of your devices.
It's really ideally suited
for productivity apps,
you know, like iWork,
but you can pretty much do
whatever you want with this API.
And finally, Core Data.
The existing Core Data API has
been extended to use iCloud so that
you can take these database-like
applications that you use Core Data to
create and get them in the cloud
and across various devices.
So who's using iCloud?
Well, it turns out there's thousands
of applications and app
developers using iCloud today.
And here's an example of some
of these great applications.
Notice the breadth of the
apps represented here.
From Infinity Blade 2,
which lets you start a game on your
iPhone and finish it on your iPad,
to Sketchbook Pro from Autodesk that lets
you conceive of an idea on your phone,
develop it on your Mac,
and then present it on your iPad.
And developers aren't the
only ones using iCloud.
Apple is also using iCloud
across its applications.
The latest mail application for iOS
6 and for OS X Mountain Lion now
takes its VIP list,
its recent senders,
and its preferences and makes
sure all of those are available
on all of your devices.
So the next time that you want
to type ahead and send an email
to someone on your iPhone that
you've never actually sent before,
it'll actually show up now
because it actually was on your
Mac and it made it to your iPhone.
This kind of seamless integration
is enabled by using iCloud.
Simply put, iCloud is integrated into
everything that we do.
So what does iCloud do for you?
Well, you know,
here's a checklist for you to consider.
The first is account setup.
125 million accounts ready
to use your application.
This means you don't have to educate your
customers on how to set up an account
before they can actually use your app.
All they need to do is go to the store,
download your app,
and they can start using it immediately.
Client APIs.
The iCloud Storage API is deeply
integrated into OS X and into iOS.
It runs alongside your application,
so updates can happen automatically
even when your app isn't running.
And this is something that you
just simply cannot do if you're
using a third-party SDK or
library in your application.
and we've written a lot of
server code on your behalf.
This includes things like load balancing,
replication, disaster recovery.
Believe me,
there's a lot of code behind iCloud,
and this means you don't
have to do this type of work.
And operations.
7 by 24 support on Christmas Day even,
especially Christmas Day.
We get a lot of people on
Christmas Day using our applications.
So what this means for you is
stress-free iCloud Storage.
So all you have to do is
use the iCloud Storage API.
This allows you to focus on building
amazing iOS and OS X applications
with no server code required.
Now,
if you happen to know some friends who
like writing server code that scales
to hundreds of millions of users,
send them our way.
We're hiring.
And now, I'd like to turn it
over to Dallas De Atley,
who will take you through
all that's new in iOS and
OS X with the iCloud Storage API.
Thank you.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Dallas,
and for the rest of the session,
we're going to talk about
how you can take advantage of
iCloud in your application.
So to give you an idea of some of the
things we're going to talk about today,
we're going to talk about how
iCloud Storage actually works,
talk about how you can use
it in your application.
We're going to go through examples
of some of the best practices for
interacting with iCloud with your app.
And we're going to talk about some of
the debugging tools that you can take
advantage of when you're developing
your application with iCloud.
iCloud is really implemented
under the hood by two services.
There's the Key-Value Storage,
and there's what the user
sees as documents and data.
As Eric mentioned previously,
you really think of the applications
in terms of three different
buckets that they might fall into.
KVS clients, documents,
and core data applications.
All of them are supported by
the services under the hood.
Let's talk a little bit
about Key-Value Storage.
We provide a single API that's
available on both iOS and OS X called
NS Ubiquitous Key-Value Store.
So your application can adopt this API to
put simple plist values into iCloud.
And when you use this API,
what's happening under the hood
is it's talking to a service
that's running on the device.
and is responsible for interacting
with iCloud on your behalf.
So your application doesn't have to
do anything with the iCloud account.
It doesn't have to do anything
about configuring the network.
It doesn't have to worry about handing
off between Wi-Fi and cellular.
The services under the hood
are doing that on your behalf.
All you have to do is
interact with that one API.
In the case of document storage,
it's similar, but we have a lot more
sophisticated APIs for your
application to interact with.
At a high level,
we have a set of APIs for
document-based applications.
So on iOS, there's UI Document.
On OS X,
NS Document is now fully iCloud-aware.
UI Managed Document is a concrete
subclass of UI Document for
your core data applications.
And applications can also directly
manage their files using the lower-level
file management APIs we provide as well.
But all of these APIs are
fully iCloud-aware,
and they're fundamentally
talking to a document service,
which is also responsible for moving
data up to the cloud and then reflecting
it down to all the other devices.
So again,
your application doesn't have to
worry about any of the nitty-gritty
details of talking to iCloud.
You just need to interact
with the APIs on the device.
So let's talk a little bit about
what it takes to actually enable
iCloud support in your project.
So one thing to note is that these
APIs are only available for applications
that ship from the App Store.
And if you're developing
an application for iOS,
of course, you'll need to provision your
iOS device for development.
and then set entitlements in
the Xcode project that inform
the device that your application
wants to take advantage of iCloud.
Let's talk about
provisioning a little bit.
So what actually is provisioning?
By default,
all iOS devices will only support
applications that either shipped with
the OS or came from the App Store.
And all of that code is
cryptographically signed.
So as a result,
we need to allow the ability for
you as a developer to sign your
own app and run it on that device.
But we need to do it in such a way
that the entire population of iOS
devices in the world are still secure.
And that's where provisioning comes in.
It allows you to provision your
devices for your signing key.
So the first thing you do
is register your iOS device
with the developer portal.
And once that's taken care of,
Xcode in the Xcode organizer
is responsible for bringing
down from the portal what we
call a provisioning profile and
putting that onto your device.
Now,
a provisioning profile is fundamentally
what defines your set of devices.
So it contains the list of
identifiers for all of your devices.
And what it's also doing is it's also
defining your developer certificate.
So what it's doing is it's telling
the device not only trust all of the
default signatures coming from Apple,
but also trust anything that
was signed by this developer.
So what it's doing is it's telling
the device not only trust all of the
default signatures coming from Apple,
but also trust anything that
was signed by this developer.
And lastly,
the provisioning profile is what's
granting that iCloud support to your
app so that when they call the APIs,
those two services are going
to go ahead and interact.
So to actually do that,
you need to turn on some entitlements.
So again, what's an entitlement?
The basic idea behind an entitlement
is very simple access control.
So we don't want to have our developers
have to learn about access control
lists and set up things like that.
Instead,
the idea is that you're going to set
an entitlement in your application.
It's included in the
signature of your app.
And at that point,
once the app is trusted,
all the service is going to
ask when you call that API is,
does the app have the entitlement?
Great.
And it's off to the races.
So to set the entitlements
in your application,
there are two.
If you're going to use
the Key-Value Storage,
this is for the KVS service.
And there's a second entitlement
for using document storage.
And once you've set those
in Xcode and built your app,
that's all you really
need to do at that point.
So let's talk about KVS in particular.
So we provide a single
API for working with KVS.
It's very simple.
It's called NSubiquitousKeyValueStore.
The idea is that you're going to
store simple plist values in iCloud.
So the same types of items that you might
put into an NS dictionary-- so strings,
and numbers, and Boolean values, NSData,
that type of thing.
It has a similar look and
feel to NSUserDefaults,
but it's specifically
for working with iCloud.
It offers very simple
conflict resolution.
So if your application is on two
devices and they both changed
the value for the same key,
KVS is going to choose a winner based
on the timestamp of the last change.
So whichever device made
the last change wins.
One thing to note about KVS is that
it is usable even if your iCloud
account isn't configured on the device.
So your application can start
calling these APIs right away,
and you don't have to worry
if the user goes and turns
on an iCloud account later.
KVS will take care of
that on your behalf.
When we introduced KVS last year,
we were fairly conservative in
its behavior because that service
is running on the device and it's
doing work that includes firing up
the network and talking to iCloud.
And so we wanted to make sure that we
weren't going to be taxing the device and
specifically the battery and the radios.
And so we tuned KVS to what we thought
the right behavior was going to be.
What we learned is we were too
conservative in how KVS worked.
So what we've done is we've
increased the capacity,
so the amount of data you
can actually put into KVS.
And so you can now store a
maximum of 1,024 keys with
NS Ubiquitous Key-Value Store.
And you can store up to a
full megabyte per application.
And this quota is not a part
of the overall user quota.
This quota is specific to your app.
Now,
you can have a single key-value pair,
and the value can be a full megabyte.
Or you can spread that
across about 1,000 keys.
We also improved the responsiveness of
the key-value service on the device,
so that when your application
interacts with the API,
it's going to be talking to
iCloud that much more often.
In particular,
you can make about 15 requests
to the API every 90 seconds.
So let's talk a little bit
about what the code looks like.
It's pretty simple.
The first thing that your
application will do is go ahead and
get access to the default store,
and then it's going to register
for standard notification,
but specifically an external
change notification so that your
application is going to get that
selector called when the Key-V store
is changed on another device.
Once you've registered
for that notification,
go ahead and tell the service
to go ahead and talk to iCloud.
Now, if you want to make a change in KVS,
once you've got that store,
it's as simple as setting objects.
So, again, it's very similar to setting
something in an NSDictionary or
in something like NSUserDefaults.
You can set an object
and you give it a key.
You can also set specific
object types like a Boolean.
We also recommend that the
data that you put into KVS,
you might want to cache locally.
So, for example,
if your application wants to
make a different decision than
the conflict resolution did,
you've got a local copy
of it to override with.
This is,
one example might be if you have a game
that is keeping track of the user's
high achievements across devices.
Well,
if the user is playing on one device
but doesn't break his high achievement,
and you set that store in KVS,
on another device, you might want to say,
no,
his high score is still this other value.
And, again,
once you've set something in the store,
go ahead and tell it to talk
to iCloud on your behalf.
So that's the API that you're
fundamentally gonna use for
setting values and registering
for your notification.
Once that notification does get fired,
you're going to get back that
standard user info dictionary,
and one of the keys in that
is going to be the reason that
we fired the notification.
And there are a few different reasons.
The first is,
if this was the initial download,
so you turned on KVS for the first time,
we're going to post a
notification to tell you,
hey, we just brought everything
down from iCloud.
We're also going to post a notification
if there was an external change.
So if your application modified
the KVS store on another device,
your application on the other device
is going to get that notification.
We also provide a reason if
you've gone over the quota.
So your application is
going to get a notification,
and the reason is going to say, hey,
you put too much data into
iCloud or you put too many keys.
Now, once you do get an external
change notification,
you can then ask,
what are the set of keys
that actually changed?
So instead of having to actually
keep track of every key value pair,
you've put into the key value store,
we're going to tell you explicitly,
here are the keys that changed.
And at that point,
you can go grab those values and, again,
consider storing them locally.
So some best practices to keep in
mind with using the key value storage.
Take advantage of KVS.
It's a very simple API.
It's very easy to adopt.
And you can use it for
things like configuration,
so that the user only has to
set up your app on one device,
and those configuration settings
are automatically reflected
to all his other devices.
You can also use it for state.
So if a user is doing
something on one device,
like reading a book,
and when he transitions
and uses another device,
he can pick up right where he left off.
So KVS is a great way to provide a
consistent user experience across all
of the user's devices with your app.
One thing to keep in mind,
don't use KVS for storing passwords.
The absolute best place to put the
cat password is in the keychain,
specifically using the SecItem API,
which is available on both OS X and iOS.
If you didn't get a chance to
see our security framework talk
earlier where we went into some
greater detail on the keychain,
that session will also be posted online.
And again,
think about keeping a local cache
in the event that your application
wants to make a different change
based on the conflict resolution.
And keep an eye on
those quota violations.
If your application is consistently
putting too much data into the cloud,
you might want to think about
using document storage for
that larger amount of data.
Let's talk about document storage.
If you're familiar with
developing for iOS,
we have the concept of
an application container.
So when your application is
downloaded to the device,
we create a container that your
application runs within that isolates
it from the rest of the system.
And this provides for...
Great stability and security for
your app and the data of other
applications on the device as well.
Document Storage also provides
an additional Ubiquiti container.
You may have also heard us refer
to this as an iCloud container.
This is a physically separate
directory on the device that
your application gets access to,
and any file data that your application
puts into the Ubiquiti container is
going to be uploaded to iCloud and
then pushed to those other devices.
So let's talk through a high-level
example of what's actually
going on underneath the hood.
So when your application goes to put
something in the Ubiquiti container,
the document service is first going to
break up the file into a set of chunks.
And if this is the first time the file's
been put into the Ubiquiti container,
all of those chunks are
going to move up to iCloud,
and now you've got the
first version in iCloud.
But when the user modifies the document,
most likely only a subset of that
file is actually going to change.
So the document service is going to
Take advantage of that and only send
the set of changes that are necessary
to reflect that new version to iCloud.
So the benefit is that your application
doesn't have to worry about any of
the details of transferring changes
and any of the network efficiency that
we might want to take advantage of.
It's all done for you.
Another concept to keep in mind
about document storage is that the
system is very aggressive about
pushing metadata to the cloud.
And when we're talking about metadata,
what we're talking about is
the information about the file.
So the name, the size,
all of the attributes that
really describe the file.
So when a file is first
put into the container,
the first thing the system is going
to do is put the metadata into iCloud,
and that metadata is also going to
make it to all the other devices.
So what this means is that your
application is going to be aware of all
of the files that are available to it,
even if it's not yet in iCloud and
even if it's not yet been downloaded.
downloaded to the device
the app is running on.
In particular,
each device is going to pull when
it's appropriate for that platform.
So, for example,
a Mac is going to have larger
storage capacity than an iOS device,
and so the policy on OS X is that any
time a new file is put into iCloud,
it's automatically going to
be brought down to the Mac.
However, on iOS,
the application will be told
about the existence of the file,
but it needs to explicitly
ask the service,
hey, go ahead and bring that
down to the device.
Now, at that point,
once the file is on the device,
any additional changes,
so any subsequent edits to that document,
are automatically going to
move to the iOS device as well.
Another optimization that the service
takes advantage of on your behalf is
that it does peer-to-peer between devices
that are on the same local network.
So if the user has a Mac on
his home network and his iPad,
When the Mac uploads a file to iCloud,
the iPad's going to learn about
the existence of that file,
but instead of having to
download it all the way from
iCloud down to the iOS device,
it can pull it directly from the Mac.
And again, all of this is done
automatically under the hood.
Your application doesn't have to
worry about any of the details.
Thank you.
The document service also supports the
concept of automatic conflict resolution.
What this means is that if
the same document is edited
on two different devices,
the system is going to pick a winner.
That being said,
your application will be given access
to the other version if you would
like to make a different decision.
Another feature that we
provide with document storage
is the idea of URL publishing.
So you can take a document and
publish its state as it is at that
point in time and make it available
for someone to download via Safari.
So what you'll get back from the
service is a URL that you can then
include in an email attachment.
So this is a nice alternative
to putting large documents into
email that might not necessarily
make it through a mail server.
One thing to keep in mind
with URL publishing is that
the URL that you publish is,
again,
the document as of that state in time.
So if the user edits the document
after it's been published,
those changes are not going
to be a part of the URL.
Also, it's not going to be published
as a URL permanently.
It will expire naturally over time.
So one of the things that we've
learned in the past year is that
developers are looking for a better way
to determine if the user has configured
an iCloud account on the device.
So unlike KVS,
document storage does require that there
is an actual iCloud account configured.
And what we've introduced in
Mountain Lion and iOS 6 is the
concept of a ubiquity identity token.
This is a very inexpensive identifier
that your application can ask for.
And if it's present,
then you know the account is configured.
And the next time you ask for it,
if the token is changed,
you know the user has changed accounts.
In particular, this token is anonymous,
so it's not going to tell you exactly
what the user's iCloud credentials are.
And it's going to be specific
to your app on that device.
So your app on two different devices
for the same iCloud account are going to
get two different values for that token.
We also post a notification if the
iCloud account changes while your
application is running or otherwise
suspended in the background.
So at that point when
the notification fires,
you can determine if the
iCloud account has changed.
And this is very useful for those of
us who are doing iCloud development
or test engineers who are switching
between accounts as a part of QA.
We also provide what we
call a container URL.
So your application will ask the
document service for the file
URL to that Ubiquiti container.
And in fact, at the time that you ask the
system for that container URL,
that's when the system goes ahead
and configures the container
on behalf of your application.
We do recommend that you
avoid calling the API for that
container URL on your main thread.
You want your main thread to be available
for responding to input from the user.
So let's walk through some simple
code examples for what your app
should do when it first launches.
The first thing you'll want to
do is check to see if the iCloud
account has been configured.
And you can call the new API in
NSFileManager to get that Ubiquiti token.
If the token's present,
you know the account is enabled.
And then you can cache that token so that
the next time your application launches,
you can determine if the
account has been changed.
You also want to go ahead and
register for notifications so that
while your application is running,
or if it's suspended in the background,
you'll know if the account changed.
And lastly, you'll want to go ahead
and tell the system,
"Okay, I want to start using document
storage," and ask for the container URL.
And again, in this example,
you'll see that we're not
doing that on the main thread.
So some best practices to keep in mind
when using the new iCloud account APIs.
Listen for that account notification.
So you want your app to be
responsive if the user has gone
into settings or system preferences
and changed the iCloud account.
If that account token does change,
you might want to clear out any
caches that you have that are
specific to that account that are
local to your application container.
You also want to refresh your UI so
that if the account does change,
the application doesn't feel stale.
And again, set up that Ubiquiti container
on a separate thread.
So let's talk a little bit about
the types of documents that you
might want to use with iCloud.
The first type are regular files.
We also have a concept of a package.
So these are for more sophisticated
documents that are not stored as
single files on the file system.
We'll talk a little bit more about
what a package is in a moment.
Core data is also fully iCloud aware.
So if your application is
using a Core Data Store,
you can take advantage of iCloud as well.
So in the case of the file type,
we support all of the
standard Unix file types,
so regular files, symlinks, directories.
If you create any of these
in the Ubiquiti container,
they are going to be reflected in
iCloud and on the user's other devices.
That includes the extended attributes,
so the additional metadata that describes
those files will also be put into iCloud.
One thing to keep in mind, though,
is the concept of case sensitivity.
So if you're working on an iOS
device and you put something
into the Ubiquiti container,
that Ubiquiti container is going
to be reflected on the Mac,
but it might have a different
file system case sensitivity.
So, for example,
a case-sensitive file system
is one where a file with the same
name but different capitalization
is treated as two separate files.
So, for example,
all caps foo is not-- the file
system sees all lowercase as a
different file in the file system.
That's not the case if
the user is running on a
case-insensitive file system.
In that case, if you write out a file
with the name all caps foo,
you can later look it up
with all lowercase foo.
You're gonna get the same file back.
So this is something to keep in mind
when you're putting files into the
iCloud container that you need to
be aware of case sensitivity issues.
So in general,
it's probably a good idea to treat
your files as if they were going
into a case-insensitive system.
So the second type of document
that we discussed is a package.
The idea of a package is that you
have multiple files that represent
a document in a single directory.
And so all of the assets of that
document are broken out into separate
files and managed independently.
And so you can have lots of small
files for an overall document.
And what this means is that when
you modify one of those files,
it's making smaller updates
or fewer updates to iCloud.
Also keep in mind that the document
service treats any change to a package as
an atomic change to the overall system.
So when your application
receives notifications that
the file's been changed,
it's going to be -- or as
the package has been changed,
they're going to be treated atomically.
Now,
we have two sessions in the future that
are going to go into greater detail
if you're using files and packages,
using uiCloud with UIDocument on iOS.
There's also a talk using
iCloud with NSDocument for OS X.
Now, the third type of document
type is core data.
And so you may have heard us refer
to these types of applications
as shoebox applications.
A good example would be iPhoto or
iTunes that are collecting a lot of
information on behalf of the user
and organizing them with a database.
So the way that Core Data supports
iCloud is that the Core Data stores
actually remains local to
your application container.
And what Core Data is doing is
uploading the change logs to that
store to iCloud that are then
brought down to the other device,
and those changes are then applied
to the local store on that device.
Now, Core Data supports the idea
of XML and binary stores in
addition to a SQLite store.
XML and binary stores mean
that when you make a change to
any element within that store,
the entire back end is written
out to the file system.
So these types of binary stores
are good for small data sets
that don't change very often.
We provide an API for iOS
applications that use core data
called UI Managed Document.
This is a concrete
subclass of UI Document,
and it fully supports iCloud.
One thing to keep in mind is that
NS Persistent Document on OS X is
not enabled for iCloud the same
way that UI Managed Document is.
If you'd like to learn more
about how to use your core
data application with iCloud,
there's another session on
Wednesday that'll go into a lot of
great detail about how that works.
So now that you've figured out what
type of document your application uses,
you want to start thinking about
how your document format will
affect usability with iCloud.
So one thing to keep in
mind is design your document
format for network efficiency.
So you don't want to be writing
out lots of changes very often
that don't necessarily represent
changes made by the user.
Because remember,
every time you modify a file
in that Ubiquiti container,
the document service has to
determine what that change was
and do work on your behalf.
Also, design your document format
to be cross-platform.
So if you have an application on
OS X and another application on iOS,
You want to be aware of any
platform incompatibilities with
the way that you're encoding
your document in the file system.
So, for example,
if you're using keyed archivers,
the data might be written out in one
format on OS X and differently on iOS.
So one concept you might want
to keep in mind is the idea of
having a cloud representation,
so that if your document is
written out into the Ubiquiti
container on an iOS device,
it's written into an
intermediate representation.
And when it's read in on a Mac,
it's read into the native
representation you have for the Mac.
Also, think about designing your document
format with application upgrades in mind.
So over time,
you're probably going to release
new versions of your application,
and you're probably going to make
changes to your document format as well.
And so think about versioning your
document format so that different
versions of your application
know what version of the document
they're going to be working with.
You want to keep in mind
version compatibility.
So you want to think about,
does the latest version of
your application support
older document formats?
For example,
do you want to be able to modify
those old documents so that an
older version of the same app on a
different device can still read them?
Do you want to have the new version
only support a read-only mode where
it can import and maybe make a
copy and write out a new version?
Or do you simply want to say we don't
support documents of that older type?
These are the types of things you
should keep in mind as you're designing
your document format for iCloud.
Some things to keep in
mind regarding performance.
Beware of sync loops.
And a sync loop is where your
application on one device makes a
change and a different version of
your app receives it on that device
and rewrites the file back out.
Then the original version of your
application sees that change,
decides to write it out again,
and you have two versions of
your app playing ping pong
with the user's iCloud account.
Also, avoid making rapid changes to
your documents tied to user input.
So, for example, if the user's actively
scrolling through the document,
you don't need to be writing
those out to the file system live.
You'll also want to keep
in mind modification dates.
So you probably don't need to
be putting the last open date
into the document format itself.
Also, keep in mind privacy
issues with using iCloud.
In particular,
iCloud is for the user's data only.
So for example,
it's not the right place to
be putting caches that your
application might be using.
It's also probably not the right
place to be putting temporary files.
In the case of caches
and temporary files,
you want to be putting those in
the local application container.
If your application
auto-generates content,
so the first time that it launches,
it's going to go pre-cache some data,
this is probably not the right
content to be putting into iCloud,
because your application can
auto-generate that content on
every device that it's running on.
Also, if you're going to be using
the URL publishing feature,
keep in mind that you don't want to
be publishing sensitive information
that's going to be surprising the user.
For example,
if the user's been editing a document
and making a bunch of changes
and you store the undo history,
that's not the type of thing that you
want to be publishing that he might make
available via email to another person.
So let's talk a little bit about
the actual APIs that you can
use to interact with iCloud.
First, there's the NS File Manager APIs.
It's available in
Foundation on both platforms.
It supports the new Account Token
API that we've introduced.
And it also is how your application
retrieves the container URL of
your Ubiquiti container.
And again, that's the URL that tells
the system that you want to
start interacting with iCloud.
NS File Manager is how your application
should be doing the low-level file
management with the Ubiquiti container.
And in doing so,
you'll want to learn about
NS File Coordinator and
NS File Presenter.
These are the APIs that your
document-based application can use
to best cooperate with the system.
So as your application is making changes
to a document stored in the container,
the document service is going to
also want to be looking at the file,
chunking it up,
and sending it up to the server.
and NS File Coordinator is how
the two cooperate with each other.
There's also NS Metadata Query.
If you remember,
iCloud is very aggressive about
uploading metadata changes
independent of the file data.
And what this means is that your
applications are going to learn about
the existence of a new file before
they might be available on the device.
So the way that your application can
keep track of the changes to files,
additions and updates and deletes,
is with a live NS metadata query.
So if you're familiar with using
metadata query for things like Spotlight,
we also have NS metadata query
available for the Ubiquiti container.
And in fact,
you can use an NS metadata query
for discovering not just the
files in the Ubiquiti container,
but also for all of the
files available locally.
We also provide iCloud
support in NS Document.
So NS Document is fully iCloud aware.
And on iOS, UI Document is also
fully supporting iCloud.
If you're a core data application on iOS,
you can take advantage
of UI Managed Document,
which is a concrete
subclass of UI Document.
So let's talk a little bit
about NS Document on OS X.
As I mentioned, NS Document is now fully
integrated with iCloud.
So if your application
subclasses NS Document,
you've done most of the work
already to be an iCloud application.
In particular,
it will enable the Ubiquiti container.
It will do all of the coordination
for file coordinator and presenter.
It will actually keep track
of all of the files that are
available to your application.
It will support all of the versioning
and all of the conflict resolution.
So all of the file management level APIs,
NS Document abstracts all of that
complexity away from your application.
In iOS -- excuse me, in OS X,
we've introduced the
new Cloud Library UI,
so the user can directly manage
all of the files that are in his
iCloud account directly using
the new NS Document Open Panel.
If the user wants to actually see
other versions of the application,
the support is built
into the system for you,
as well as the UI for allowing
the user to choose that other
version that he wants to use.
So NS Document really takes a lot
of the complexity of handling all of
these details and does them for you.
If you want to learn more about
how NS Document does this,
as I mentioned,
there's a session on Wednesday in
the afternoon that goes into a lot
of great detail about NS Document and
how you can use it with iCloud.
So let's talk a little bit about the
typical workflow of an application.
So on iOS,
when you create a new document,
you want to create that as
a subclass of UI document.
And on OS X, you want to use NS document.
If you're doing a new Core Data document
and you subclass UI Managed Document,
you get all of your iCloud
support through that class.
And NS Persistent Document is
how you use Core Data on iCloud,
but remember, it's not iCloud enabled.
Now, if you're an iOS device,
your application is responsible for
tracking the files and presenting a UI of
documents that are available to the user,
and you can discover all of
the files that are available to
your app using NSMetadata query,
and that's a live query.
So as changes are made to the container,
your application is going
to receive notifications,
and you'll be able to respond to them.
On OS X,
The user can discover what files
and documents are in iCloud
using the new iCloud Library UI.
When the system decides to
resolve conflicts on your behalf,
UI document and NSFile version allow
you to make a different decision on iOS.
And on OS X, as I mentioned,
we present that system UI for
managing files and versions and
choosing a different version for you.
If you want to rename
or move files around,
you can use the NSFile Manager.
And again, you'll want to learn more
about NSFile Coordinator.
And that's also talked about in
the NSDocument with iCloud Talk.
Again, on OS X,
that type of management is all
done via the new iCloud UI.
So some best practices to keep in mind
with using your documents in iCloud.
Subclass those native document classes,
UI document, NS document,
UI managed document.
They're going to take away all of the
complexity of working with the Ubiquiti
container and do it on your behalf.
In order to subclass those classes,
you will need to enable autosave
behavior in your application.
Now, when the OS X team went to
adopt iCloud and TextEdit,
fundamentally all they had to
do was enable autosave behavior
in their NS document subclass,
and that was it.
If you're a Core Data application,
there are a few things
you should keep in mind.
Again,
Core Data will keep the Core Data store
local in your application container.
And what's being synced via
iCloud are the actual change logs.
Those are what's moving
into the container,
being uploaded,
and then downloaded to the other devices.
Then those change logs are applied
to the local Core Data store.
If your application is going
to pre-populate a store
when it first launches,
we recommend against actually taking
a pre-existing Core Data store and
physically moving it into place.
Instead, you'll want to create that new
Core Data object and use the migration
API to populate the data that way.
Some things to keep in mind that are
specific to iOS clients of iCloud.
You want to be actively
tracking your documents,
so take advantage of the NS Metadata
Query API for learning about all of the
documents that are available to your app.
And again,
keep in mind that your application
is going to be notified about the
existence of files that might not
yet be downloaded to that device.
So your application will need
to explicitly tell the system,
now that this file exists and
it's uploaded into iCloud,
go ahead and bring it down
to my Ubiquiti container.
And remember,
once you've asked the system to
download a document on your behalf,
any changes to that document that are
made on other devices are automatically
going to go to your device as well.
In particular, you'll want to be aware
of conflict resolution.
So the system's going to
choose a winner on your behalf,
but if your application would
like to make a different decision,
UI documents supports a
state that'll tell you that
the document is in conflict.
So when you get a notification
the document has changed,
you can also find out,
did it conflict with another version?
And if you want to go
choose another version,
you can.
We do recommend that you avoid
asking the user to make a decision.
So if you've got two different
versions and you're going
to reconcile those changes,
you should try to do it
automatically so that you don't
actually have to ask the user.
Some things to keep in mind
that are specific to OS X.
Avoid deadlocks with modal UI.
So if your application is bringing
up a sheet or modal UI and
you're interacting with iCloud,
that's something you'll
want to be aware of.
And again, they're going to go into some
more detail on how this works
in the NS document and advanced
iCloud sessions later in the week.
The OS will manage conflict
resolution on your behalf,
so the iCloud Library UI and
the Versions UI will allow the
user to go and make changes.
And of course,
the new iCloud Library UI is what
allows a user to discover what
files are in his iCloud library
and when he creates new files,
choose to put them there.
So one of the things that we've learned
over the past year is that it can be a
little bit difficult to determine if your
application is using iCloud correctly.
So here are some tips and tricks for
debugging your application with iCloud.
In particular,
test with multiple devices.
So if you've got two iOS devices
or a mix of iOS and Macs,
you want to be testing
your application on both.
You want to be monitoring
the network traffic.
And this is a good idea so that
you understand how the format
of your document is interacting
with the Ubiquiti container.
Now, OS X has a network utility manager
that can kind of get you started
on looking at that type of data.
For conflict resolution on an iOS device,
you can put the device
into airplane mode.
And what that's going to do is actually
disable the radios on the device so
that neither Wi-Fi nor cellular can
actually reach the iCloud server.
So one technique for inducing
a conflict is have the same
document on two iOS devices,
put it into airplane mode,
then edit those documents differently,
then take them out of airplane mode.
And that will give you a good
idea of how to exercise conflict
resolution on your device.
We're also introducing a
configuration profile that
will be made available online.
And this configuration profile
will enable additional logging
with the document service.
So if you believe you're running
into a bug with the system,
you can download this profile and
include that data with your bug report,
and that will help engineers at
Apple figure out what might be going on.
But in particular, file bug reports.
And this is something
that's really important,
not just to iCloud,
but to every technology.
As you're using our APIs,
if you believe the APIs are misbehaving,
or if there are specific enhancements
that would make it a lot easier to
build a really great application,
absolutely file a bug report.
You can do that with bugreport.apple.com.
But fundamentally,
bug reports are the lifeblood
of software engineering.
It's the way that engineers know how
their APIs are fundamentally being used.
That and talking to them
directly in the labs.
Also,
take advantage of the developer forums.
There are a lot of developers who
may have already adopted these
APIs ahead of you and have more
familiarity with how they behave.
Apple engineers are also available
on the forums to ask your questions.
In addition to all of those methods
for testing your application,
we're also introducing a new
tool called developer.icloud.com.
One thing to keep in mind with
this new service is that it's
only available if you've activated
an iOS device running iOS 6.
This won't always be the case.
This is only temporarily.
So by the time iOS 6 and
Mountain Lion are final,
you won't have to go through
this additional step.
But developer.icloud.com is what
allows you as a developer to
actually get a better feel for
what data is going into iCloud.
So when you go to the website,
you're going to be presented with
Your usual iCloud credential API.
So once you log in,
we're actually going to show you
every Ubiquiti container that
is associated with your account.
So every application
that is using iCloud,
specifically the
document storage service,
is going to have its Ubiquiti
container visible on this
developer-specific portal.
And then what you can do
is you can drill into your
application's Ubiquiti container,
and what this is showing you are the
files that are actually in iCloud.
So you can tell if when your application
put a file into the Ubiquiti container,
you can then see that it got to iCloud.
And we also allow you to download
the files from iCloud so you can
see what data made it as well.
If you'd like more information about
any of the APIs that we discussed today,
we have a lot of great
documentation online,
and of course,
they're to the developer forums.
We've also introduced a new iCloud
Design Guide that goes into a lot of
really wonderful detail about how the
system works and how your application
can take advantage of both Key-Value
Storage and the Document Storage APIs.
I really recommend,
if you want to use iCloud,
and you should,
take a look at that Design Guide.
It's going to go into a lot of detail
about the stuff we talked about today.
We have a bunch of related sessions
that are coming up later in the week.
So if you want to learn specifically
how to use UI document and
NS document on our two platforms,
these talks are going to go into
greater detail about how that works.
We also have a talk that is specifically
about using core data with iCloud.
And there's an advanced iCloud document
storage that's going to go into a lot of
greater detail about how all of it works.
So in summary, iCloud makes for a really
great user experience.
And we highly recommend that your
applications take advantage of it.
Key-Value Storage in particular
allows your application to build
a persistent and consistent user
experience across all devices.
And the API is very simple to use.
We've also added new APIs in iCloud
Accounts so that your application
can very simply determine if
an iCloud account is configured
on the device and learn about
notifications if the account changes.
And we also talked about document
storage and the types of documents
that you can be putting into iCloud
and some of the best practices for
interacting with the Ubiquiti container.
And so with that,
I'd like to thank you very
much for coming this afternoon.
I hope you have a great week.